# Introduction

Open, reproducible, and collaborative science at DFO involves the development of tools to analyze, visualize, and update data in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Increasingly, advice provision and ocean management requires the integration and analysis of large and diverse data sets, with outputs being used to inform decision-making processes such as stock assessment, ecosystem approaches to fisheries management, conservation planning, and marine spatial planning. Efforts are underway to develop tools for transparent, traceable, and transferable assessments at DFO (Edwards et al. 2018), which combined with interactive spatial tools, demonstrate a new and powerful approach for science communication and advice (Regular et al. submitted). 

Interactive tools allow the audience to interact with data and data products, allowing increased control over what type of information the user wants to explore in more detail over traditional static outputs (e.g., tables, figures, reports). For instance, Gomez et al. (2016) used an interactive interface (published as a supplement: https://catalinagomez.shinyapps.io/BRSApp/) that allowed users to review and manipulate information gathered on the behavioural responses of wild marine mammals to noise, and the disparity between science and policy. This interactive tool allows readers to download, filter, and re-plot the data in a variety of ways to further explore and understand this work in a more open and transparent manner. Interactive tools offer a tangible step towards more open-data science and regulatory advice, and have recently been developed within DFO to enrich scientific review and advisory processes such as those coordinated by the Canadian Science Advisory Secretariat (CSAS). For instance, in 2017 the DFO Maritimes Region developed a tool (https://incorporatingecosystemapproach.shinyapps.io/indiapp/) for an exploratory ecosystem-focused analysis that integrates information derived from oceanographic conditions and ecological indicators, together with stock indices. 

The primary aim of this project was to provide an initial exploration of how interactive tools can enrich and/or augment stock assessments, and was used for discussion at the Groundfish CSAS Update on December 4-5, 2017. Such a tool has allowed end users to actively explore data inputs and outputs, in addition to the commonly used static plots. Regular et al. (submitted) provide an example of this progress within DFO, by building interactive visualizations using new open source R packages (Flexdashboard, Shiny, and Plotly; Allaire 2017, Chang et al. 2019, and Sievert 2018, respectively) directly into stock assessment processes. Regular et al. (submitted) contend that the use of interactive visualization tools as part of the science advice process can lead to improved transparency, engagement, and communication, between all participants in the peer-review process. Another example is the open knowledge platform e-Drivers (https://david-beauchesne.shinyapps.io/edriversapp/) developed by David Beauchesne to facilitate the process of gathering experts committed to structuring, standardizing, and sharing
2
knowledge on drivers in support of science and management (https://david-beauchesne.shinyapps.io/edriversapp/) Recognizing the benefits and relative simplicity of developing R interactive tools, a series of R Learning and Development sessions were held to: introduce these new approaches to the broader DFO Science community; to share and learn about the use of interactive tools and their role in improving the way we explore, communicate, and provide science advice; and to kick start a network of users interested in extending these approaches to other science applications beyond stock assessment. 

These proceedings provide an overall summary of this series on the use of Interactive Tools for Science Advice hosted by DFO Science Sector – Maritimes Region, in November and December, 2019. This series of Learning and Development training consisted of three R workshop components: 

i. An introduction to R Shiny Applications, 
i. Hands-on training on Interactive Tools for Science Advice (e.g. flexdashboard R package, Allaire 2017), and 
i. Interactive tools for science advice with R dashboard. 

The first and third series were open to everyone in the DFO Maritimes Region interested in R (WebEx capabilities were available), while the second workshop was attended by a total of 28 Maritimes Region Science Staff from all Science Divisions, and one participant from the Oceans Management Program. The intent of these proceedings is to document the discussion and material from this workshop series and provide an open platform for which other interested users can download and try the learned approaches (including R code). Further, we propose recommendations on how to move forward with these types of novel approaches that challenge traditional ways of pursuing science advice.



